The usage of sessions is not limited to handling the user log in.
You can use sessions to also track the user's activity before they authenticate or after they log out.
But when doing that, it's very important that after a successful log in, a pre authenticated session
is destroyed and the new one is created with the new ID.
Decision.
It must be regenerated after the successful authentication, but before restoring the authentication
down to the session.
The regeneration of such an idea is also recommended when changing passports, entering elevated privilege
modes, etc..
There are warnings all over the PDP manual about issues with regenerating session IDs when the network
connection is unstable.
If you experience any such problems, don't just throw the whole idea to the trash.
On the manual entry for session regenerate add function.
There is a sample code which explains how to deal with these issues.
Basically you don't delete the old fashioned data and instead you save the at times dump when it was
destroyed.
And the new session id.
If this old session is used within the permitted time since it's been destroyed, it's 5 minutes in
manual, but I guess it could be less.
You tried to switch to the new session idea, and when this old session is used over the permitted time,
you just deny it and destroy.
The important bit is that the old session cannot be really used and cannot work the same like the new
session.
For example, if you user logged in, the information that they are locked in must be saved in the new
session only.
On the user log out.
Forced or not, the whole session should be destroyed.
Note that in PDP it's not a simple to use session.
Start on, log in and session, destroy on, log out.
It's a little more complicated with the log out part because first session destroy function will not
destroy anything without starting the session first.
So you actually need to first use the session start function.
Second, it doesn't clear the session data on the current page load, which means this code will actually
print the user's name even though you destroyed this session before the ICO instruction.
It will not print it on the subsequent request, but it will print it on this particular request which
destroys the session.
Last.
It doesn't actually deliver this session, cookie.
It only clears the temporary session file on the server.
And if the cookie will not be deleted, a new session like on another log in will be started with the
same session ID as before.
If an attacker was able to steal the session idea, they can use it more than once.
If this doesn't delete this session cookie on the log out and the victim logs in again.
To force a new session ID for each login you need to either delete the cookie on session end or use
session read in the root ID function on each login to always start with a fresh ID or simply do both.
To sum up to completely delete this session, you need to start the session with session start function.
Erase all the session variables.
Delete the session cookie in the user's browser.
And then you can destroy the rest of the session with search and destroy function.
And after doing all that, you can start a new session to again, drug unauthenticated users actions.
So this would be the complete session destroyer or simply a low gold function.
Finally make sure you do everything to protect your sites from attacks like cross-site request, forgery,
cross-site scripting and as fuel injection.
With cross site request forgery.
An attacker could act on behalf of an authenticated user without having to steal the session.
And with cross-site scripting and sometimes as fuel injection, the attacker could steal user's session
IDs.